# Password-Generator

This project generates random passwords satisfying the criteria set by users. The UI is premade and my job is to write the
javascript. Other features like checking if there are 3 repeating characters in the password, and a button to regenerate the password, are created.

[Link to the password-generator](https://cckinwest.github.io/password-generator/)

## Approach to the problem

The app receives (1) the input of length of pwd, a while loop is used to ensure the length is within the range from 8 to 128. After the valid input of length, we have the confirmations of selecting (2) lowercase, (3) uppercase, (4) numeric, and (5) special characters. The five criterias are used to construct a random password.

### The creation of password

This part will be divided into several steps.

Step 1: determination of number of digits for each type of characters selected.
Step 2: creation of a random chunk for each type of characters.
Step 3: combining the chunks in step 2 together, then randomly shuffle the result to form the final password.

#### Step 1

I will illustrate how to do this part with an example. Suppose the length of password is 15. Lowercase, uppercase, and special characters are selected. For the lowercase, we have to allocate a random number of digits from 1 to 13 (15 - 2, as we have to reserve at least 2 digits for the remaining 2 types). Suppose 5 digits for lowercase. Then, a random number of digits from 1 to 9 (15 - 5 - 1). Suppose it's 4. Then all the remaining 6 (15 - 5 - 4) are for the special characters.

#### Step 2

Once the numbers are dertermined, an array [5, 4, 0, 6] is created (0 for the numeric). For lowercase, a random character is chosen from abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz. This process is repeated 5 times. The same for uppercase and special characters. Finally, 3 random chunks are created for the 3 types selected.

#### Step 3

The chunks in step 2 are concatenated to form the 'first version' of the password. However, it's not in a good shape as the characters of the same type are put together, which is harmful to the security. The result is rearranged randomly to have the final password.

## Refactor of the password

After planning, it's easier to write the code which works. However, the first version of code is very messy. Some pieces of code repeat many times. For these repeating pieces, functions are created. Refactoring can make the code easier to read and for my colleagues to follow-up.

## Optional feature

(1) It's a common requirement that a password should not contain a long chunk of repeating characters. Therefore, users are asked whether they want additional security by checking if passwords created have long chunks of repeating characters. The check is not mandatory as it sometimes takes a very long time.

(2) It's also common for users don't like the password generated. Therefore, the criterias selected are saved in global variables and new passwords can be regenerated by a new button using the saved criterias. When the "generate password" button is clicked, the "regenerate password" button is disabled to avoid error.
